=head1 NAME

mqttcli - DTN MQTT convergence layer input task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mqttcli> I<host>:I<port>/I<suffix> [B<-u> I<username>] [B<-p> I<password>]
[B<-t>] [B<-c> I<cafile>] [B<-C> I<capath>] [B<-k> I<keystore>]
[B<-K> I<keypassword>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mqttcli> is a background "daemon" task that receives bundles via an
MQTT broker.  It subscribes to the topic C<ion/bundles/>I<suffix> using
QoS 1 (at-least-once delivery) and acquires each received message as a
bundle.

The duct name format is I<host>:I<port>/I<suffix>, where I<host> and
I<port> identify the MQTT broker and I<suffix> is a node-specific
identifier used to construct the subscription topic.

Persistent MQTT sessions (C<cleansession=0>) are used so that the broker
queues messages for the subscriber while it is offline.  The client ID
is deterministic, derived from the duct name suffix, so that session
state is recovered across restarts.

B<mqttcli> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol; the text
of the command that is used to spawn the task must be provided at the
time the "mqtt" convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.
The convergence layer input task is terminated by B<bpadmin> in
response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

B<mqttcli> requires the Eclipse Paho MQTT C client library
(libpaho-mqtt3c).  For TLS support, the library must have been built
with OpenSSL (libpaho-mqtt3cs).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-u> I<username>

MQTT username for broker authentication.

=item B<-p> I<password>

MQTT password for broker authentication.

=item B<-t>

Enable TLS.  The connection URI scheme changes from C<tcp://> to
C<ssl://>.  If any of B<-c>, B<-C>, or B<-k> is specified, TLS is
enabled automatically.

=item B<-c> I<cafile>

Path to a PEM file containing trusted CA certificates for server
certificate verification.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-C> I<capath>

Path to a directory containing CA certificates in PEM format (hashed
with C<c_rehash>).  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-k> I<keystore>

Path to a PEM file containing the client certificate and private key
for mutual TLS authentication.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-K> I<keypassword>

Password to decrypt the client private key if it is encrypted.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<mqttcli> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.

=item "1"

B<mqttcli> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<mqttcli>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item mqttcli can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such mqtt duct.

No mqtt induct matching the duct name has been added to the BP database.
Use B<bpadmin> to stop the mqtt convergence-layer protocol, add the
induct, and then restart the mqtt protocol.

=item mqttcli: can't connect to MQTT broker.

The MQTT broker is not reachable.  Check that the broker is running and
the host/port are correct.  The receiver thread will attempt to reconnect
with exponential backoff.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Plain TCP connection:

    a induct mqtt broker.local:1883/node1 mqttcli

With username/password authentication:

    a induct mqtt broker.local:1883/node1 'mqttcli -u ionuser -p secret'

With TLS (server certificate verification only):

    a induct mqtt broker.local:8883/node1 'mqttcli -c /etc/mqtt/ca.pem'

With mutual TLS authentication:

    a induct mqtt broker.local:8883/node1 'mqttcli -c /etc/mqtt/ca.pem -k /etc/mqtt/client.pem'

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/zebastian/ION-DTN-CONTRIB/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), mqttclo(1), bprc(5)
