=head1 NAME

mqttclo - DTN MQTT convergence layer output task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mqttclo> I<host>:I<port>/I<suffix> [B<-u> I<username>] [B<-p> I<password>]
[B<-t>] [B<-c> I<cafile>] [B<-C> I<capath>] [B<-k> I<keystore>]
[B<-K> I<keypassword>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mqttclo> is a background "daemon" task that transmits bundles via an
MQTT broker.  It publishes each outbound bundle to the topic
C<ion/bundles/>I<suffix> using QoS 1 (at-least-once delivery).

The duct name format is I<host>:I<port>/I<suffix>, where I<host> and
I<port> identify the MQTT broker and I<suffix> is a node-specific
identifier used to construct the publish topic (typically identifying
the remote node).

MQTT messages are inherently length-delimited, so no additional framing
is applied; the raw bundle bytes are sent as the MQTT message payload.

Persistent MQTT sessions (C<cleansession=0>) are used.  On connection
failure, the daemon retries with exponential backoff (1 second up to
30 seconds).

B<mqttclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol; the text
of the command that is used to spawn the task must be provided at the
time the "mqtt" convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.
The convergence layer output task is terminated by B<bpadmin> in
response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

B<mqttclo> requires the Eclipse Paho MQTT C client library
(libpaho-mqtt3c).  For TLS support, the library must have been built
with OpenSSL (libpaho-mqtt3cs).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-u> I<username>

MQTT username for broker authentication.

=item B<-p> I<password>

MQTT password for broker authentication.

=item B<-t>

Enable TLS.  The connection URI scheme changes from C<tcp://> to
C<ssl://>.  If any of B<-c>, B<-C>, or B<-k> is specified, TLS is
enabled automatically.

=item B<-c> I<cafile>

Path to a PEM file containing trusted CA certificates for server
certificate verification.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-C> I<capath>

Path to a directory containing CA certificates in PEM format (hashed
with C<c_rehash>).  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-k> I<keystore>

Path to a PEM file containing the client certificate and private key
for mutual TLS authentication.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-K> I<keypassword>

Password to decrypt the client private key if it is encrypted.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<mqttclo> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.

=item "1"

B<mqttclo> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<mqttclo>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item mqttclo can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such mqtt duct.

No mqtt outduct matching the duct name has been added to the BP database.
Use B<bpadmin> to stop the mqtt convergence-layer protocol, add the
outduct, and then restart the mqtt protocol.

=item mqttclo: can't connect to MQTT broker.

The MQTT broker is not reachable.  Check that the broker is running and
the host/port are correct.  The daemon will attempt to reconnect with
exponential backoff.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Plain TCP connection:

    a outduct mqtt broker.local:1883/node2 mqttclo

With username/password authentication:

    a outduct mqtt broker.local:1883/node2 'mqttclo -u ionuser -p secret'

With TLS (server certificate verification only):

    a outduct mqtt broker.local:8883/node2 'mqttclo -c /etc/mqtt/ca.pem'

With mutual TLS authentication:

    a outduct mqtt broker.local:8883/node2 'mqttclo -c /etc/mqtt/ca.pem -k /etc/mqtt/client.pem'

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/zebastian/ION-DTN-CONTRIB/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), mqttcli(1), bprc(5)
