=head1 NAME

bpcmdd - Bundle Protocol command daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpcmdd> [B<-n>] [B<-t> I<ttl>] I<ownEndpointID> I<command> [I<arg> ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpcmdd> listens on the BP endpoint I<ownEndpointID>.  For every delivered
bundle it forks I<command>, pipes the bundle payload to that command's
standard input, and, unless B<-n> is given, returns whatever the command
writes to its standard output back to the bundle's source endpoint ID as a
reply bundle.

One child process is spawned per bundle (fork-per-bundle), and bundles are
processed serially: a long-running command blocks reception of the next
bundle until it exits.

The command is invoked with these environment variables set:
B<BP_SOURCE_EID> (the received bundle's source EID), B<BP_DEST_EID>
(I<ownEndpointID>), and B<BP_PAYLOAD_LEN> (the payload length in bytes).  The
command's standard error is inherited and appears on B<bpcmdd>'s standard
error.

No reply is sent when B<-n> is in effect, when the bundle source is the
anonymous EID B<dtn:none>, or when the command produces no standard output.

There is no command whitelisting at the protocol level; I<command> is fixed
at launch and applies to every bundle.  Restrict the endpoint and use
OS-level controls as needed.

B<bpcmdd> runs until it receives SIGINT, at which point it detaches from BP.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpcmdd> terminated normally after receiving SIGINT.

=item "1"

B<bpcmdd> terminated due to a usage error or a startup or BP failure.
Details are noted in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-n>

Do not send the command's standard output back to the bundle source.

=item B<-t> I<ttl>

Reply bundle lifetime, in seconds.  Defaults to 86400.

=item I<ownEndpointID>

The local endpoint ID on which B<bpcmdd> listens.  Mandatory.

=item I<command> [I<arg> ...]

The command (and optional arguments) to fork for each received bundle.
Mandatory.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item bpcmdd can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item bpcmdd can't open own endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<ownEndpointID>.  Terminate that
application and rerun, or choose a different endpoint.

=item bpcmdd can't fork command.

System error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the cause of
the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item bpcmdd can't send reply bundle.

System error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the cause of
the error; correct problem and rerun.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpsink(1), bpsource(1), bp(3)
