=head1 NAME

quiccli - DTN QUIC convergence layer input task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<quiccli> B<-c> I<cert> B<-k> I<key> [B<-C> I<cafile>] [B<-A> I<alpn>]
[B<-t> I<idlesec>] I<host>[:I<port>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<quiccli> is a background "daemon" task that receives bundles from remote
nodes over QUIC (RFC 9000), using ngtcp2 with the GnuTLS crypto backend.  It
binds a UDP socket to I<host>:I<port> (default port 4556), accepts QUIC
connections, reassembles the length-prefixed bundles carried on each
connection's bidirectional stream, and injects them into ION.

A server certificate (B<-c>) and private key (B<-k>) are required.  The duct
name format is I<host>[:I<port>]; an empty I<host> binds all interfaces.

B<quiccli> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command; the spawning command text is supplied when the "quic"
convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.  The task is
terminated by B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c> I<cert>

Server certificate (PEM).  Required.

=item B<-k> I<key>

Server private key (PEM).  Required.

=item B<-C> I<cafile>

PEM file of trusted CA certificates for verifying clients (mutual TLS).

=item B<-A> I<alpn>

ALPN protocol identifier (default C<dtn>); must match the client.

=item B<-t> I<idlesec>

QUIC idle timeout in seconds (default 30).

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<quiccli> terminated normally.

=item "1"

B<quiccli> terminated abnormally; see the B<ion.log> file.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    a induct quic 0.0.0.0:4556 'quiccli -c /etc/quic/server.pem -k /etc/quic/server.key'

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), quicclo(1), bprc(5)
