=head1 NAME

quicclo - DTN QUIC convergence layer output task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<quicclo> [B<-C> I<cafile>] [B<-c> I<cert>] [B<-k> I<key>] [B<-A> I<alpn>]
[B<-n>] [B<-u>] [B<-t> I<idlesec>] I<host>[:I<port>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<quicclo> is a background "daemon" task that transmits bundles to a remote
node over QUIC, implementing the QUICCL protocol of draft-caini-dtn-quiccl
(ngtcp2 with the GnuTLS crypto backend).  It opens a QUIC connection to
I<host>:I<port> (default port 4560), performs the QUICCL session handshake on
stream 0, and transmits each bundle as one or more XFER_SEGMENT messages on a
priority-mapped data stream.  With B<-u> the unreliable service is used,
sending bundles as QUIC datagrams instead.

The duct name format is I<host>[:I<port>], identifying the B<quiccli> server.
By default the server's certificate is verified against the system trust
store (or the file given with B<-C>); B<-n> disables verification, which is
useful with self-signed certificates.

B<quicclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command; the spawning command text is supplied when the "quic"
convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.  The task is
terminated by B<bpadmin> in response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-C> I<cafile>

PEM file of trusted CA certificates used to verify the server.

=item B<-c> I<cert>

Client certificate (PEM) for mutual TLS.

=item B<-k> I<key>

Client private key (PEM) for mutual TLS.

=item B<-A> I<alpn>

ALPN protocol identifier (default C<quicclav1>); must match the server.

=item B<-n>

Do not verify the server certificate.

=item B<-u>

Use the unreliable service, carrying bundles in QUIC datagrams (no
acknowledgement) rather than on reliable streams.

=item B<-t> I<idlesec>

QUIC idle timeout in seconds (default 30).

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<quicclo> terminated normally.

=item "1"

B<quicclo> terminated abnormally; see the B<ion.log> file.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    a outduct quic peer.example:4560 'quicclo -C /etc/quic/ca.pem'

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), quiccli(1), bprc(5)
