=head1 NAME

bpshd - Bundle Protocol remote shell daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpshd> I<listenEID>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpshd> is the server side of the B<bpsh> remote shell.  It listens on
I<listenEID> for requests from B<bpsh> clients, executes their commands over
Bundle Protocol version 7, and returns standard output, standard error, and
the command exit code to the requesting client in separate bundles.

Each client (keyed by its source endpoint ID) is given its own persistent
B</bin/sh>, so B<cd>, environment variables, and shell functions persist
across the commands of a session.  The exit status and the command boundary
travel out-of-band on a dedicated control file descriptor, so standard output
and standard error stream verbatim with no in-band sentinels.

Command output is transmitted under ION flow control by way of a transmission
attendant (see B<ionStartAttendant>): when a large volume of output is
produced, bundle creation blocks waiting for ZCO space rather than dropping
data.  Each command is also subject to a wall-clock timeout (300 seconds by
default; see ENVIRONMENT) and an output cap of 16 MB; exceeding either tears
down the command's process group.

A fresh INIT from a client aborts any stalled command for that client and
starts a new session, which provides recovery from a hung command.

B<bpshd> runs until it receives SIGINT or SIGTERM, at which point it tears
down all active sessions and detaches from BP.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<bpshd> terminated normally after receiving SIGINT or SIGTERM.

=item "1"

B<bpshd> terminated due to a startup or BP failure.  Details are noted in the
B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item I<listenEID>

The local endpoint ID on which B<bpshd> listens for client requests.
Mandatory.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item BPSHD_CMD_TIMEOUT

Wall-clock limit, in seconds, for a single command before it and its shell
are killed.  Defaults to 300.  A value of 0 disables the timeout.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item bpshd: bp_attach failed.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item bpshd: can't open listen endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<listenEID>.  Terminate that
application and rerun, or choose a different listen endpoint.

=item bpshd: can't start transmission attendant.

ION system error.  Check for earlier diagnostic messages describing the cause
of the error; correct problem and rerun.

=item [i] bpshd listening on ...

Informational: B<bpshd> has started and is listening on I<listenEID>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpsh(1), bp(3)
