=head1 NAME

bpsh - Bundle Protocol remote shell client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bpsh> B<-h> I<remoteEID> B<-l> I<localEID> [B<-c> I<command>]

B<bpsh> I<localEID> I<remoteEID>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bpsh> is an SSH-like remote shell client that runs commands on a remote
node over Bundle Protocol version 7.  It connects to a B<bpshd> daemon
listening on I<remoteEID>, which executes the submitted commands in a
persistent B</bin/sh> and returns standard output, standard error, and the
exit code in separate bundles.  Replies are delivered to I<localEID>, which
B<bpsh> opens as its own endpoint.

Because the transport is the Bundle Protocol, B<bpsh> tolerates long delays
and link disruptions: a command and its output are carried in
store-and-forward bundles rather than over a continuous connection.

By default B<bpsh> runs an interactive read-eval-print loop (REPL).  The
prompt shows the working directory of the remote shell, and because a single
B</bin/sh> persists for the whole session, B<cd>, environment variables, and
shell functions carry over from one command to the next.  The REPL supports
in-line editing (left/right/home/end/delete), command history on the up and
down arrow keys, and a B<history> builtin.  Typing B<exit> closes the session
and leaves the REPL.

With B<-c>, B<bpsh> runs a single I<command> in one-shot mode and exits with
the remote command's exit code.  If standard input is not a terminal it is
forwarded to the remote command as bundles, allowing input to be piped to the
remote shell.

The positional form B<bpsh> I<localEID> I<remoteEID> is accepted as a
backward-compatible shorthand for B<-l> I<localEID> B<-h> I<remoteEID> and
always runs the interactive REPL.

B<bpsh> terminates on the SIGINT signal (^C at the prompt).

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

In REPL mode, B<bpsh> terminated normally.  In one-shot mode (B<-c>), the
remote command exited with status 0.

=item I<n>

In one-shot mode, B<bpsh> exits with the exit code I<n> of the remote
command.  A value of "1" may also indicate a local BP transmit/receive
failure, loss of the local ION node, or an error reported by B<bpshd>;
details are noted on standard error and in the B<ion.log> log file.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h> I<remoteEID>

Endpoint ID of the remote B<bpshd> daemon.  Mandatory.

=item B<-l> I<localEID>

Local endpoint ID on which B<bpsh> receives replies.  Mandatory.

=item B<-c> I<command>

Run I<command> as a single one-shot request, then exit with the remote
command's exit code.  Standard input is forwarded if it is not a terminal.
Without B<-c>, B<bpsh> runs an interactive REPL.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over 4

=item NO_COLOR, TERM

If NO_COLOR is set, or TERM indicates a non-capable terminal, B<bpsh>
suppresses colored output.

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to standard error or to the
B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item bpsh: bp_attach failed.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item bpsh: can't open local endpoint.

Another application has already opened I<localEID>.  Terminate that
application and rerun, or choose a different local endpoint.

=item bpsh: failed to send INIT

=item bpsh: failed to receive INIT_ACK

B<bpsh> could not establish a session with the remote B<bpshd>.  Verify that
the daemon is running on I<remoteEID> and that a contact/route exists between
the two nodes.

=item bpsh: server error: ...

The remote B<bpshd> reported an out-of-band error for the session.

=item bpsh: lost the local ION node

The local ION node was torn down while B<bpsh> was attached.  This is
reported as a clean exit rather than a core dump.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/nasa-jpl/ION-DTN/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpshd(1), bpchat(1), bp(3)
