=head1 NAME

mysqlcli - DTN MySQL convergence layer input task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mysqlcli> I<host>[:I<port>] [B<-d> I<db>] [B<-T> I<table>]
[B<-u> I<user>] [B<-p> I<password>] [B<-S> I<socket>] [B<-n> I<batch>]
[B<-i> I<pollms>] [B<-e> I<srcpattern>] [B<-t>] [B<-c> I<cafile>]
[B<-k> I<cert>] [B<-K> I<key>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mysqlcli> is a background "daemon" task that receives bundles from a
MySQL/MariaDB table.  It selects the rows whose C<src_eid> belongs to the
local node from the table named by B<-T> (default C<outbound>) in the
database named by B<-d> (default C<ion>), injects each bundle into ION,
and deletes the consumed rows.

Because the row owner is matched against the local node's own EID
(derived from ION as C<ipn:>I<ownNodeNbr>C<.*>), several ION nodes may
share one server and table; each B<mysqlcli> picks up only its own rows.
The match can be overridden with B<-e>.

The duct name format is I<host>[:I<port>], identifying the MySQL server
(default port 3306).  The database and table are created if they do not
exist.  Rows are read and deleted in batches of up to B<-n> bundles
(default 100) within a single transaction; when no matching rows are
present the daemon polls every B<-i> milliseconds.  On connection
failure it retries with exponential backoff (1 second up to 30 seconds).

B<mysqlcli> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol; the text
of the command that is used to spawn the task must be provided at the
time the "mysql" convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.
The convergence layer input task is terminated by B<bpadmin> in response
to an 'x' (STOP) command.

B<mysqlcli> requires a MySQL/MariaDB client library (e.g. libmariadb).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d> I<db>

Database name (default C<ion>).

=item B<-T> I<table>

Table name (default C<outbound>).

=item B<-u> I<user>

MySQL user for authentication.

=item B<-p> I<password>

MySQL password for authentication.

=item B<-S> I<socket>

Path to a Unix domain socket, used instead of TCP.

=item B<-n> I<batch>

Maximum number of bundles read and deleted per transaction (default 100).

=item B<-i> I<pollms>

Idle poll interval, in milliseconds, when no matching rows are present
(default 1000).

=item B<-e> I<srcpattern>

Override the row-owner match with an explicit SQL C<LIKE> pattern applied
to C<src_eid> (e.g. C<'ipn:5.%'>), instead of deriving the local node's
own EID.

=item B<-t>

Enable TLS.  Implied by any of B<-c>, B<-k>.

=item B<-c> I<cafile>

Path to a PEM file of trusted CA certificates.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-k> I<cert>

Path to the client certificate (PEM) for mutual TLS.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-K> I<key>

Path to the client private key (PEM) for mutual TLS.  Implies B<-t>.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<mysqlcli> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.

=item "1"

B<mysqlcli> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<mysqlcli>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item mysqlcli can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such mysql duct.

No mysql induct matching the duct name has been added to the BP database.
Use B<bpadmin> to add the induct.

=item mysqlcla: can't connect.

The MySQL server is not reachable.  Check that the server is running and
the host/port/credentials are correct.  The daemon will retry with
exponential backoff.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    a induct mysql db1:3306 'mysqlcli -d ion -T outbound -u ion -p secret'

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/zebastian/ION-DTN-CONTRIB/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), mysqlclo(1), bprc(5)
