=head1 NAME

mysqlclo - DTN MySQL convergence layer output task

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mysqlclo> I<host>[:I<port>] [B<-d> I<db>] [B<-T> I<table>]
[B<-u> I<user>] [B<-p> I<password>] [B<-S> I<socket>] [B<-n> I<batch>]
[B<-f> I<flushms>] [B<-b> I<bufsize>] [B<-t>] [B<-c> I<cafile>]
[B<-k> I<cert>] [B<-K> I<key>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<mysqlclo> is a background "daemon" task that transmits bundles by
storing them in a MySQL/MariaDB table.  Each bundle dequeued from ION is
always inserted, with metadata, into the table named by B<-T> (default
C<inbound>) in the database named by B<-d> (default C<ion>); a peer node
or an application then picks the bundles up.

The duct name format is I<host>[:I<port>], identifying the MySQL server
(default port 3306).  The database and table are created if they do not
exist.  Each row holds C<id>, C<payload> (the raw bundle), C<length>,
C<src_eid>, C<dst_eid>, and C<created_at>.

Inserts are batched: bundles are buffered and committed in a single
transaction once B<-n> bundles are queued or the B<-f> flush window
elapses, whichever comes first.  On connection failure the daemon
retries with exponential backoff (1 second up to 30 seconds).

B<mysqlclo> is spawned automatically by B<bpadmin> in response to the 's'
(START) command that starts operation of the Bundle Protocol; the text
of the command that is used to spawn the task must be provided at the
time the "mysql" convergence layer protocol is added to the BP database.
The convergence layer output task is terminated by B<bpadmin> in
response to an 'x' (STOP) command.

B<mysqlclo> requires a MySQL/MariaDB client library (e.g. libmariadb).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d> I<db>

Database name (default C<ion>).

=item B<-T> I<table>

Table name (default C<inbound>).

=item B<-u> I<user>

MySQL user for authentication.

=item B<-p> I<password>

MySQL password for authentication.

=item B<-S> I<socket>

Path to a Unix domain socket, used instead of TCP.

=item B<-n> I<batch>

Maximum number of bundles per insert transaction (default 100).

=item B<-f> I<flushms>

Maximum time, in milliseconds, to hold a partial batch before
committing it (default 100).

=item B<-b> I<bufsize>

Maximum bundle size handled, in bytes (default 262144).  The server's
C<max_allowed_packet> must accommodate the resulting INSERT.

=item B<-t>

Enable TLS.  Implied by any of B<-c>, B<-k>.

=item B<-c> I<cafile>

Path to a PEM file of trusted CA certificates.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-k> I<cert>

Path to the client certificate (PEM) for mutual TLS.  Implies B<-t>.

=item B<-K> I<key>

Path to the client private key (PEM) for mutual TLS.  Implies B<-t>.

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 4

=item "0"

B<mysqlclo> terminated normally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.

=item "1"

B<mysqlclo> terminated abnormally, for reasons noted in the B<ion.log> file.
Investigate and solve the problem identified in the log file, then use
B<bpadmin> to restart B<mysqlclo>.

=back

=head1 FILES

No configuration files are needed.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

No environment variables apply.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

The following diagnostics may be issued to the B<ion.log> log file:

=over 4

=item mysqlclo can't attach to BP.

B<bpadmin> has not yet initialized Bundle Protocol operations.

=item No such mysql duct.

No mysql outduct matching the duct name has been added to the BP
database.  Use B<bpadmin> to add the outduct.

=item mysqlcla: can't connect.

The MySQL server is not reachable.  Check that the server is running and
the host/port/credentials are correct.  The daemon will retry with
exponential backoff.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    a outduct mysql db1:3306 'mysqlclo -d ion -T inbound -u ion -p secret'

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <https://github.com/zebastian/ION-DTN-CONTRIB/issues>

=head1 SEE ALSO

bpadmin(1), mysqlcli(1), bprc(5)
